# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

#### Public Classes

* [`proxysql`](#proxysql): Install and configure ProxySQL.

#### Private Classes

* `proxysql::admin_credentials`: This class is called from proxysql for service config.
* `proxysql::config`: This class is called from proxysql for service config.
* `proxysql::configure`: This class is called from proxysql for all proxy configuration.
* `proxysql::install`: This class is called from proxysql for install.
* `proxysql::params`: It sets variables according to platform.
* `proxysql::prerequisites`: Manage the prerequisites where the ProxySQL package might be.
* `proxysql::reload_config`: This class is called from proxysql to update config if it changed.
* `proxysql::repo`: Manage the repos where the ProxySQL package might be.
* `proxysql::selinux`: Adds selinux configuration needed for logrotate to work.
* `proxysql::service`: This class ensures that the service is running.

### Resource types

* [`proxy_cluster`](#proxy_cluster): Manage a ProxySQL cluster.
* [`proxy_global_variable`](#proxy_global_variable): Manage a ProxySQL global variable.
* [`proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup`](#proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup): Manage a ProxySQL mysql_galera_hostgroup.
* [`proxy_mysql_group_replication_hostgroup`](#proxy_mysql_group_replication_hostgroup): Manage a ProxySQL mysql_group_replication_hostgroup.
* [`proxy_mysql_query_rule`](#proxy_mysql_query_rule): Manage a ProxySQL mysql_query_rules entry.
* [`proxy_mysql_replication_hostgroup`](#proxy_mysql_replication_hostgroup): Manage a ProxySQL mysql_replication_hostgroup.
* [`proxy_mysql_server`](#proxy_mysql_server): Manage a ProxySQL mysql_server.
* [`proxy_mysql_server_no_hostgroup`](#proxy_mysql_server_no_hostgroup): Manage a ProxySQL mysql_server.
* [`proxy_mysql_user`](#proxy_mysql_user): Manage a ProxySQL mysql_user. This includes management of users password as well as privileges.
* [`proxy_scheduler`](#proxy_scheduler): Manage a ProxySQL scheduler entry.

### Data types

* [`Proxysql::GaleraHostgroup`](#Proxysql--GaleraHostgroup): Represents an entry in the ProxySQL `mysql_galera_hostgroups` admin table.
* [`Proxysql::GroupReplicationHostgroup`](#Proxysql--GroupReplicationHostgroup): Represents a ProxySQL group replication hostgroup.
* [`Proxysql::Hostgroup`](#Proxysql--Hostgroup): Represents a ProxySQL replication hostgroup.
* [`Proxysql::Scheduler`](#Proxysql--Scheduler): Represents a ProxySQL scheduler
* [`Proxysql::Server`](#Proxysql--Server): Represents a ProxySQL server.
* [`Proxysql::User`](#Proxysql--User): Represents a ProxySQL user.

## Classes

### <a name="proxysql"></a>`proxysql`

Install and configure ProxySQL.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `proxysql` class:

* [`package_name`](#-proxysql--package_name)
* [`package_ensure`](#-proxysql--package_ensure)
* [`package_install_options`](#-proxysql--package_install_options)
* [`service_name`](#-proxysql--service_name)
* [`service_ensure`](#-proxysql--service_ensure)
* [`datadir`](#-proxysql--datadir)
* [`datadir_mode`](#-proxysql--datadir_mode)
* [`errorlog_file`](#-proxysql--errorlog_file)
* [`errorlog_file_mode`](#-proxysql--errorlog_file_mode)
* [`errorlog_file_owner`](#-proxysql--errorlog_file_owner)
* [`errorlog_file_group`](#-proxysql--errorlog_file_group)
* [`manage_selinux`](#-proxysql--manage_selinux)
* [`manage_mysql_client`](#-proxysql--manage_mysql_client)
* [`listen_ip`](#-proxysql--listen_ip)
* [`listen_port`](#-proxysql--listen_port)
* [`listen_socket`](#-proxysql--listen_socket)
* [`admin_username`](#-proxysql--admin_username)
* [`admin_password`](#-proxysql--admin_password)
* [`stats_username`](#-proxysql--stats_username)
* [`stats_password`](#-proxysql--stats_password)
* [`admin_listen_ip`](#-proxysql--admin_listen_ip)
* [`admin_listen_port`](#-proxysql--admin_listen_port)
* [`admin_listen_socket`](#-proxysql--admin_listen_socket)
* [`monitor_username`](#-proxysql--monitor_username)
* [`monitor_password`](#-proxysql--monitor_password)
* [`config_file`](#-proxysql--config_file)
* [`manage_config_file`](#-proxysql--manage_config_file)
* [`mycnf_file_name`](#-proxysql--mycnf_file_name)
* [`manage_mycnf_file`](#-proxysql--manage_mycnf_file)
* [`restart`](#-proxysql--restart)
* [`load_to_runtime`](#-proxysql--load_to_runtime)
* [`save_to_disk`](#-proxysql--save_to_disk)
* [`manage_repo`](#-proxysql--manage_repo)
* [`version`](#-proxysql--version)
* [`package_source`](#-proxysql--package_source)
* [`package_provider`](#-proxysql--package_provider)
* [`package_checksum_value`](#-proxysql--package_checksum_value)
* [`package_checksum_type`](#-proxysql--package_checksum_type)
* [`package_dependencies`](#-proxysql--package_dependencies)
* [`sys_owner`](#-proxysql--sys_owner)
* [`sys_group`](#-proxysql--sys_group)
* [`override_config_settings`](#-proxysql--override_config_settings)
* [`node_name`](#-proxysql--node_name)
* [`cluster_name`](#-proxysql--cluster_name)
* [`cluster_username`](#-proxysql--cluster_username)
* [`cluster_password`](#-proxysql--cluster_password)
* [`mysql_client_package_name`](#-proxysql--mysql_client_package_name)
* [`manage_hostgroup_for_servers`](#-proxysql--manage_hostgroup_for_servers)
* [`mysql_servers`](#-proxysql--mysql_servers)
* [`mysql_users`](#-proxysql--mysql_users)
* [`mysql_hostgroups`](#-proxysql--mysql_hostgroups)
* [`mysql_group_replication_hostgroups`](#-proxysql--mysql_group_replication_hostgroups)
* [`mysql_galera_hostgroups`](#-proxysql--mysql_galera_hostgroups)
* [`mysql_rules`](#-proxysql--mysql_rules)
* [`schedulers`](#-proxysql--schedulers)
* [`split_config`](#-proxysql--split_config)
* [`proxy_config_file`](#-proxysql--proxy_config_file)
* [`manage_proxy_config_file`](#-proxysql--manage_proxy_config_file)

##### <a name="-proxysql--package_name"></a>`package_name`

Data type: `String`

The name of the ProxySQL package in your package manager.

Default value: `'proxysql'`

##### <a name="-proxysql--package_ensure"></a>`package_ensure`

Data type: `String`

The ensure of the ProxySQL package resource.

Default value: `'installed'`

##### <a name="-proxysql--package_install_options"></a>`package_install_options`

Data type: `Array[String]`

An array of additional options to pass when installing a package.

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-proxysql--service_name"></a>`service_name`

Data type: `String`

The name of the ProxySQL service resource.

Default value: `'proxysql'`

##### <a name="-proxysql--service_ensure"></a>`service_ensure`

Data type: `String`

The ensure of the ProxySQL service resource.

Default value: `'running'`

##### <a name="-proxysql--datadir"></a>`datadir`

Data type: `String`

The directory where ProxySQL will store its data.

Default value: `$proxysql::params::datadir`

##### <a name="-proxysql--datadir_mode"></a>`datadir_mode`

Data type: `Stdlib::Filemode`

The filesystem mode for the `datadir`.

Default value: `'0600'`

##### <a name="-proxysql--errorlog_file"></a>`errorlog_file`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Unixpath]`

The File where ProxySQL will store its error logs. Available from ProxySQL v2.0.0

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-proxysql--errorlog_file_mode"></a>`errorlog_file_mode`

Data type: `Stdlib::Filemode`

The filesystem mode for the `errorlog_file`. Available from ProxySQL v2.0.0

Default value: `'0600'`

##### <a name="-proxysql--errorlog_file_owner"></a>`errorlog_file_owner`

Data type: `String`

Owner of the `errorlog_file`. Available from ProxySQL v2.0.0

Default value: `'proxysql'`

##### <a name="-proxysql--errorlog_file_group"></a>`errorlog_file_group`

Data type: `String`

Group of the `errorlog_file`. Available from ProxySQL v2.0.0

Default value: `'proxysql'`

##### <a name="-proxysql--manage_selinux"></a>`manage_selinux`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to create the required selinux rules for logrotate to work.
This parameter also requires the `puppet/selinux` module to be installed.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-proxysql--manage_mysql_client"></a>`manage_mysql_client`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to include the mysql::client class.
You may have mysql::client included or managed with different parameters elsewhere in your catalogue.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-proxysql--listen_ip"></a>`listen_ip`

Data type: `String`

The ip where the ProxySQL service will listen on.

Default value: `'0.0.0.0'`

##### <a name="-proxysql--listen_port"></a>`listen_port`

Data type: `Integer`

The port where the ProxySQL service will listen on.

Default value: `6033`

##### <a name="-proxysql--listen_socket"></a>`listen_socket`

Data type: `String`

The socket where the ProxySQL service will listen on.

Default value: `$proxysql::params::listen_socket`

##### <a name="-proxysql--admin_username"></a>`admin_username`

Data type: `String`

The username to connect to the ProxySQL admin interface.

Default value: `'admin'`

##### <a name="-proxysql--admin_password"></a>`admin_password`

Data type: `Sensitive[String]`

The password to connect to the ProxySQL admin interface.

Default value: `Sensitive('admin')`

##### <a name="-proxysql--stats_username"></a>`stats_username`

Data type: `String`

The username to connect with read-only permissions to the ProxySQL admin interface.

Default value: `'stats'`

##### <a name="-proxysql--stats_password"></a>`stats_password`

Data type: `Sensitive[String]`

The password to connect with read-only permissions to the ProxySQL admin interface.

Default value: `Sensitive('stats')`

##### <a name="-proxysql--admin_listen_ip"></a>`admin_listen_ip`

Data type: `String`

The ip where the ProxySQL admin interface will listen on.

Default value: `'127.0.0.1'`

##### <a name="-proxysql--admin_listen_port"></a>`admin_listen_port`

Data type: `Integer`

The port where the ProxySQL admin interface  will listen on.

Default value: `6032`

##### <a name="-proxysql--admin_listen_socket"></a>`admin_listen_socket`

Data type: `String`

The socket where the ProxySQL admin interface  will listen on. Changing this on a running system will result in failing runs.

Default value: `$proxysql::params::admin_listen_socket`

##### <a name="-proxysql--monitor_username"></a>`monitor_username`

Data type: `String`

The username ProxySQL will use to connect to the configured mysql_servers.

Default value: `'monitor'`

##### <a name="-proxysql--monitor_password"></a>`monitor_password`

Data type: `Sensitive[String]`

The password ProxySQL will use to connect to the configured mysql_servers.

Default value: `Sensitive('monitor')`

##### <a name="-proxysql--config_file"></a>`config_file`

Data type: `String`

The file where the ProxySQL configuration is saved. This will only be configured if `manage_config_file` is set to `true`.

Default value: `'/etc/proxysql.cnf'`

##### <a name="-proxysql--manage_config_file"></a>`manage_config_file`

Data type: `Boolean`

Determines whether this module will configure the ProxySQL configuration file.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-proxysql--mycnf_file_name"></a>`mycnf_file_name`

Data type: `String`

Path of the my.cnf file where the connections details for the admin interface is save. This is required for the providers to work.
This will only be configured if `manage_mycnf_file` is set to `true`.

Default value: `'/root/.my.cnf'`

##### <a name="-proxysql--manage_mycnf_file"></a>`manage_mycnf_file`

Data type: `Boolean`

Determines whether this module will configure the my.cnf file to connect to the admin interface.
This is required for the providers to work.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-proxysql--restart"></a>`restart`

Data type: `Boolean`

Determines whether this module will restart ProxySQL after reconfiguring the config file.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-proxysql--load_to_runtime"></a>`load_to_runtime`

Data type: `Boolean`

Specifies whether te managed ProxySQL resources should be immediately loaded to the active runtime.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-proxysql--save_to_disk"></a>`save_to_disk`

Data type: `Boolean`

Specifies whether te managed ProxySQL resources should be immediately save to disk.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-proxysql--manage_repo"></a>`manage_repo`

Data type: `Boolean`

Determines whether this module will manage the repositories where ProxySQL might be.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-proxysql--version"></a>`version`

Data type: `Pattern[/^[1|2]\.\d+\.\d+/]`

The version of proxysql being managed. This parameter affects the repository configured when `manage_repo == true` and how the service is managed.
It does not affect the package version being installed. It is used as a hint to the puppet module on how to configure proxysql. To control the exact version
deployed, use `package_name` or `package_source`. Currently defaults to '2.0.7' or the value of the `proxysql_version` fact.

Default value: `$proxysql::params::version`

##### <a name="-proxysql--package_source"></a>`package_source`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

location of a proxysql package.  When specified, this package will be installed with the `package\_provider` and the `manage_repo` setting will be ignored.
Since version 4 of this module, this defaults to `undef` and needs to be specified when you don't want to use a package from a repository.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-proxysql--package_provider"></a>`package_provider`

Data type: `Enum['dpkg','rpm']`

provider for `package_source`.

Default value: `$proxysql::params::package_provider`

##### <a name="-proxysql--package_checksum_value"></a>`package_checksum_value`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

The checksum of the package. Optional and only applicable when `package_source` is provided.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-proxysql--package_checksum_type"></a>`package_checksum_type`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

The 'type' of `package_checksum_value`. Optional and only applicable when `package_checksum_value` is provided.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-proxysql--package_dependencies"></a>`package_dependencies`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

A list of packages which should be additionally installed.

Default value: `$proxysql::params::package_dependencies`

##### <a name="-proxysql--sys_owner"></a>`sys_owner`

Data type: `String`

Owner of the datadir and config_file.

Default value:

```puppet
$version ? {
    /^1/ => 'root',
    /^2/ => 'proxysql'
```

##### <a name="-proxysql--sys_group"></a>`sys_group`

Data type: `String`

Group of the datadir and config_file.

Default value: `$sys_owner`

##### <a name="-proxysql--override_config_settings"></a>`override_config_settings`

Data type: `Hash`

Which configuration variables should be overriden.

Default value: `{}`

##### <a name="-proxysql--node_name"></a>`node_name`

Data type: `String`

The name of the node.

Default value: `"${facts['networking']['fqdn']}:${admin_listen_port}"`

##### <a name="-proxysql--cluster_name"></a>`cluster_name`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

If set, proxysql_servers with the same cluster_name will be automatically added to the same cluster and will
synchronize their configuration parameters.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-proxysql--cluster_username"></a>`cluster_username`

Data type: `String`

The username ProxySQL will use to connect to the configured mysql_clusters

Default value: `'cluster'`

##### <a name="-proxysql--cluster_password"></a>`cluster_password`

Data type: `Sensitive[String]`

The password ProxySQL will use to connect to the configured mysql_clusters.

Default value: `Sensitive('cluster')`

##### <a name="-proxysql--mysql_client_package_name"></a>`mysql_client_package_name`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

The name of the mysql client package in your package manager.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-proxysql--manage_hostgroup_for_servers"></a>`manage_hostgroup_for_servers`

Data type: `Boolean`

Determines whether this module will manage hostgroup_id for mysql_servers.
If false - it will skip difference in this value between manifest and defined in ProxySQL.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-proxysql--mysql_servers"></a>`mysql_servers`

Data type: `Optional[Proxysql::Server]`

Array of mysql_servers, that will be created in ProxySQL.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-proxysql--mysql_users"></a>`mysql_users`

Data type: `Optional[Proxysql::User]`

Array of mysql_users, that will be created in ProxySQL.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-proxysql--mysql_hostgroups"></a>`mysql_hostgroups`

Data type: `Optional[Proxysql::Hostgroup]`

Array of mysql_hostgroups, that will be created in ProxySQL.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-proxysql--mysql_group_replication_hostgroups"></a>`mysql_group_replication_hostgroups`

Data type: `Optional[Proxysql::GroupReplicationHostgroup]`

Hash of mysql_group_replication_hostgroups, that will be created in ProxySQL.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-proxysql--mysql_galera_hostgroups"></a>`mysql_galera_hostgroups`

Data type: `Optional[Proxysql::GaleraHostgroup]`

Hash of mysql_galera_hostgroups, that will be created in ProxySQL.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-proxysql--mysql_rules"></a>`mysql_rules`

Data type: `Optional[Proxysql::Rule]`

Array of mysql_rules, that will be created in ProxySQL.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-proxysql--schedulers"></a>`schedulers`

Data type: `Optional[Proxysql::Scheduler]`

Array of schedulers, that will be created in ProxySQL.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-proxysql--split_config"></a>`split_config`

Data type: `Boolean`

If set, ProxySQL config file will be split in 2: main config file with admin and mysql variables
and proxy config file with servers\users\hostgroups\scheduler params.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-proxysql--proxy_config_file"></a>`proxy_config_file`

Data type: `String`

The file where servers\users\hostgroups\scheduler\rules params of ProxySQL configuration are saved
This will only be configured if `split_config` is set to `true`.

Default value: `'/etc/proxysql_proxy.cnf'`

##### <a name="-proxysql--manage_proxy_config_file"></a>`manage_proxy_config_file`

Data type: `Boolean`

Determines whether this module will update the ProxySQL proxy configuration file.

Default value: `true`

## Resource types

### <a name="proxy_cluster"></a>`proxy_cluster`

Manage a ProxySQL cluster.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `proxy_cluster` type.

##### `comment`

Valid values: `%r{[\w+]}`

free form comment field.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: `present`, `absent`

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: `present`

##### `hostname`

Valid values: `%r{\w+}`

The hostname of the server.

##### `port`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

The port of the server.

##### `weight`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

Currently unused, but in the roadmap for future enhancements.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `proxy_cluster` type.

* [`load_to_runtime`](#-proxy_cluster--load_to_runtime)
* [`name`](#-proxy_cluster--name)
* [`provider`](#-proxy_cluster--provider)
* [`save_to_disk`](#-proxy_cluster--save_to_disk)

##### <a name="-proxy_cluster--load_to_runtime"></a>`load_to_runtime`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Load this entry to the active runtime.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-proxy_cluster--name"></a>`name`

namevar

name for cluster to manage.

##### <a name="-proxy_cluster--provider"></a>`provider`

The specific backend to use for this `proxy_cluster` resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will
usually discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

##### <a name="-proxy_cluster--save_to_disk"></a>`save_to_disk`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Perist this entry to the disk.

Default value: `true`

### <a name="proxy_global_variable"></a>`proxy_global_variable`

Manage a ProxySQL global variable.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `proxy_global_variable` type.

##### `value`

Valid values: `%r{.+}`

variable value

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `proxy_global_variable` type.

* [`load_to_runtime`](#-proxy_global_variable--load_to_runtime)
* [`name`](#-proxy_global_variable--name)
* [`provider`](#-proxy_global_variable--provider)
* [`save_to_disk`](#-proxy_global_variable--save_to_disk)

##### <a name="-proxy_global_variable--load_to_runtime"></a>`load_to_runtime`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Load this entry to the active runtime.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-proxy_global_variable--name"></a>`name`

namevar

variable name

##### <a name="-proxy_global_variable--provider"></a>`provider`

The specific backend to use for this `proxy_global_variable` resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet
will usually discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

##### <a name="-proxy_global_variable--save_to_disk"></a>`save_to_disk`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Perist this entry to the disk.

Default value: `true`

### <a name="proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup"></a>`proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup`

Manage a ProxySQL mysql_galera_hostgroup.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup` type.

##### `active`

active

##### `comment`

Valid values: `%r{[\w+]}`

text field can be used to store any arbitrary data.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: `present`, `absent`

Manage the state of this type.

Default value: `present`

##### `max_transactions_behind`

Maximum Transaction Galera Node out-of-sync

##### `max_writers`

Maximum Writers

##### `writer_is_also_reader`

A writer is also used for reading

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup` type.

* [`backup_writer_hostgroup`](#-proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup--backup_writer_hostgroup)
* [`load_to_runtime`](#-proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup--load_to_runtime)
* [`name`](#-proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup--name)
* [`offline_hostgroup`](#-proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup--offline_hostgroup)
* [`provider`](#-proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup--provider)
* [`reader_hostgroup`](#-proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup--reader_hostgroup)
* [`save_to_disk`](#-proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup--save_to_disk)
* [`writer_hostgroup`](#-proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup--writer_hostgroup)

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup--backup_writer_hostgroup"></a>`backup_writer_hostgroup`

Backup Writer hostgroup.

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup--load_to_runtime"></a>`load_to_runtime`

Valid values: `true`, `false`, `yes`, `no`

Load this entry to the active runtime.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup--name"></a>`name`

namevar

name to describe the hostgroup config

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup--offline_hostgroup"></a>`offline_hostgroup`

Offline hostgroup.

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup--provider"></a>`provider`

The specific backend to use for this `proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup` resource. You will seldom need to specify this ---
Puppet will usually discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup--reader_hostgroup"></a>`reader_hostgroup`

Reader hostgroup.

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup--save_to_disk"></a>`save_to_disk`

Valid values: `true`, `false`, `yes`, `no`

Perist this entry to the disk.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_galera_hostgroup--writer_hostgroup"></a>`writer_hostgroup`

Writer hostgroup.

### <a name="proxy_mysql_group_replication_hostgroup"></a>`proxy_mysql_group_replication_hostgroup`

Manage a ProxySQL mysql_group_replication_hostgroup.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `proxy_mysql_group_replication_hostgroup` type.

##### `active`

Valid values: `%r{[01]}`

Active status.

##### `backup_writer_hostgroup`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

Backup writer hostgroup.

##### `comment`

Valid values: `%r{[\w+]}`

text field can be used to store any arbitrary data.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: `present`, `absent`

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: `present`

##### `max_transactions_behind`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

Max transactions behind.

##### `max_writers`

Valid values: `%r{[01]}`

Max writers.

##### `offline_hostgroup`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

Offline hostgroup.

##### `reader_hostgroup`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

Reader hostgroup.

##### `writer_hostgroup`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

Writer hostgroup.

##### `writer_is_also_reader`

Valid values: `%r{[01]}`

Writer is also a reader.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `proxy_mysql_group_replication_hostgroup` type.

* [`load_to_runtime`](#-proxy_mysql_group_replication_hostgroup--load_to_runtime)
* [`name`](#-proxy_mysql_group_replication_hostgroup--name)
* [`provider`](#-proxy_mysql_group_replication_hostgroup--provider)
* [`save_to_disk`](#-proxy_mysql_group_replication_hostgroup--save_to_disk)

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_group_replication_hostgroup--load_to_runtime"></a>`load_to_runtime`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Load this entry to the active runtime.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_group_replication_hostgroup--name"></a>`name`

namevar

name to describe the hostgroup config

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_group_replication_hostgroup--provider"></a>`provider`

The specific backend to use for this `proxy_mysql_group_replication_hostgroup` resource. You will seldom need to specify
this --- Puppet will usually discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_group_replication_hostgroup--save_to_disk"></a>`save_to_disk`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Perist this entry to the disk.

Default value: `true`

### <a name="proxy_mysql_query_rule"></a>`proxy_mysql_query_rule`

Manage a ProxySQL mysql_query_rules entry.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `proxy_mysql_query_rule` type.

##### `active`

Valid values: `%r{[01]}`

Is the rule active or not.

##### `apply`

Valid values: `%r{[01]}`

Used to chain rules.

##### `cache_ttl`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

The amount of miliseconds to cache the result of this query.

##### `client_addr`

Valid values: `%r{\w+}`

Match traffic from a certain address.

##### `comment`

Valid values: `%r{[\w+]}`

free form text field, usable for a descriptive comment of the query rule.

##### `delay`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

number of milliseconds to delay the execution of the query.

##### `destination_hostgroup`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

The hostgroup to send this query to.

##### `digest`

Valid values: `%r{\w+}`

match queries with a specific digest, as returned by stats_mysql_query_digest.digest

##### `ensure`

Valid values: `present`, `absent`

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: `present`

##### `error_msg`

Valid values: `%r{\w+}`

query will be blocked, and the specified error_msg will be returned to the client.

##### `flag_in`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

Used to chain rules. This is the id of the previous rule to apply

##### `flag_out`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

Used to chain rules. This is the id of the next rule to apply

##### `log`

Valid values: `%r{[01]}`

query will be logged.

##### `match_digest`

Valid values: `%r{\w+}`

regular expression that matches the query digest

##### `match_pattern`

Valid values: `%r{.*}`

regular expression that matches the query text

##### `mirror_flag_out`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

see https://github.com/sysown/proxysql/blob/master/doc/mirroring.md

##### `mirror_hostgroup`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

see https://github.com/sysown/proxysql/blob/master/doc/mirroring.md.

##### `negate_match_pattern`

Valid values: `%r{[01]}`

if this is set to 1, only queries not matching the query text will be considered as a match. This acts as a NOT operator in front of the regular expression matching against match_pattern or match_digest.

##### `proxy_addr`

Valid values: `%r{\w+}`

Match incoming traffic on a specific local address.

##### `proxy_port`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

Match incoming traffic on a specific local port.

##### `reconnect`

Valid values: `%r{[01]}`

feature currently not in use.

##### `replace_pattern`

Valid values: `%r{.*}`

this is the pattern with which to replace the matched pattern.

##### `retries`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

the maximum number of times a query needs to be re-executed in case of detected failure during the execution of the query.

##### `rule_id`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

The id of the query rule.

##### `schemaname`

Valid values: `%r{\w+}`

Schema to apply this rule to.

##### `timeout`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

The maximum amount of miliseconds in which the matched or rewritten query should be executed.

##### `username`

Valid values: `%r{\w+}`

Username to apply this rule to.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `proxy_mysql_query_rule` type.

* [`load_to_runtime`](#-proxy_mysql_query_rule--load_to_runtime)
* [`name`](#-proxy_mysql_query_rule--name)
* [`provider`](#-proxy_mysql_query_rule--provider)
* [`save_to_disk`](#-proxy_mysql_query_rule--save_to_disk)

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_query_rule--load_to_runtime"></a>`load_to_runtime`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Load this entry to the active runtime.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_query_rule--name"></a>`name`

namevar

query rule name

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_query_rule--provider"></a>`provider`

The specific backend to use for this `proxy_mysql_query_rule` resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet
will usually discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_query_rule--save_to_disk"></a>`save_to_disk`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Perist this entry to the disk.

Default value: `true`

### <a name="proxy_mysql_replication_hostgroup"></a>`proxy_mysql_replication_hostgroup`

Manage a ProxySQL mysql_replication_hostgroup.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `proxy_mysql_replication_hostgroup` type.

##### `comment`

Valid values: `%r{[\w+]}`

text field can be used to store any arbitrary data.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: `present`, `absent`

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: `present`

##### `reader_hostgroup`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

Reader hostgroup.

##### `writer_hostgroup`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

Writer hostgroup.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `proxy_mysql_replication_hostgroup` type.

* [`load_to_runtime`](#-proxy_mysql_replication_hostgroup--load_to_runtime)
* [`name`](#-proxy_mysql_replication_hostgroup--name)
* [`provider`](#-proxy_mysql_replication_hostgroup--provider)
* [`save_to_disk`](#-proxy_mysql_replication_hostgroup--save_to_disk)

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_replication_hostgroup--load_to_runtime"></a>`load_to_runtime`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Load this entry to the active runtime.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_replication_hostgroup--name"></a>`name`

namevar

name to describe the hostgroup config

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_replication_hostgroup--provider"></a>`provider`

The specific backend to use for this `proxy_mysql_replication_hostgroup` resource. You will seldom need to specify this
--- Puppet will usually discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_replication_hostgroup--save_to_disk"></a>`save_to_disk`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Perist this entry to the disk.

Default value: `true`

### <a name="proxy_mysql_server"></a>`proxy_mysql_server`

Manage a ProxySQL mysql_server.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `proxy_mysql_server` type.

##### `comment`

Valid values: `%r{[\w+]}`

text field that can be used for any purposed defined by the user. Could be a description of what the host stores, a reminder of when the host was added or disabled, or a JSON processed by some checker script.

##### `compression`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

if the value is greater than 0, new connections to that server will use compression

##### `ensure`

Valid values: `present`, `absent`

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: `present`

##### `hostgroup_id`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

The hostgroup of the server.

Default value: `0`

##### `hostname`

Valid values: `%r{\w+}`

The hostname of the server.

Default value: `localhost`

##### `max_connections`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

the maximum number of connections ProxySQL will open to this backend server. Even though this server will have the highest weight, no new connections will be opened to it once this limit is hit. Please ensure that the backend is configured with a correct value of max_connections to avoid that ProxySQL will try to go beyond that limit

##### `max_latency_ms`

Valid values: `%r{[\d+]}`

ping time is regularly monitored. If a host has a ping time greater than max_latency_ms it is excluded from the connection pool (although the server stays ONLINE)

##### `max_replication_lag`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

if greater and 0, ProxySQL will reguarly monitor replication lag and if it goes beyond such threshold it will temporary shun the host until replication catch ups

##### `port`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

The port of the server.

Default value: `3306`

##### `status`

Valid values: `ONLINE`, `SHUNNED`, `OFFLINE_SOFT`, `OFFLINE_HARD`

Server status.

##### `use_ssl`

Valid values: `%r{[01]}`

if set to 1, connections to the backend will use SSL

##### `weight`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

the bigger the weight of a server relative to other weights, the higher the probability of the server to be chosen from a hostgroup

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `proxy_mysql_server` type.

* [`load_to_runtime`](#-proxy_mysql_server--load_to_runtime)
* [`name`](#-proxy_mysql_server--name)
* [`provider`](#-proxy_mysql_server--provider)
* [`save_to_disk`](#-proxy_mysql_server--save_to_disk)

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_server--load_to_runtime"></a>`load_to_runtime`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Load this entry to the active runtime.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_server--name"></a>`name`

namevar

name for server to manage.

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_server--provider"></a>`provider`

The specific backend to use for this `proxy_mysql_server` resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will
usually discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_server--save_to_disk"></a>`save_to_disk`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Perist this entry to the disk.

Default value: `true`

### <a name="proxy_mysql_server_no_hostgroup"></a>`proxy_mysql_server_no_hostgroup`

Manage a ProxySQL mysql_server.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `proxy_mysql_server_no_hostgroup` type.

##### `comment`

Valid values: `%r{[\w+]}`

text field that can be used for any purposed defined by the user. Could be a description of what the host stores, a reminder of when the host was added or disabled, or a JSON processed by some checker script.

##### `compression`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

if the value is greater than 0, new connections to that server will use compression

##### `ensure`

Valid values: `present`, `absent`

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: `present`

##### `hostname`

Valid values: `%r{\w+}`

The hostname of the server.

Default value: `localhost`

##### `max_connections`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

the maximum number of connections ProxySQL will open to this backend server. Even though this server will have the highest weight, no new connections will be opened to it once this limit is hit. Please ensure that the backend is configured with a correct value of max_connections to avoid that ProxySQL will try to go beyond that limit

##### `max_latency_ms`

Valid values: `%r{[\d+]}`

ping time is regularly monitored. If a host has a ping time greater than max_latency_ms it is excluded from the connection pool (although the server stays ONLINE)

##### `max_replication_lag`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

if greater and 0, ProxySQL will reguarly monitor replication lag and if it goes beyond such threshold it will temporary shun the host until replication catch ups

##### `port`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

The port of the server.

Default value: `3306`

##### `status`

Valid values: `ONLINE`, `SHUNNED`, `OFFLINE_SOFT`, `OFFLINE_HARD`

Server status.

##### `use_ssl`

Valid values: `%r{[01]}`

if set to 1, connections to the backend will use SSL

##### `weight`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

the bigger the weight of a server relative to other weights, the higher the probability of the server to be chosen from a hostgroup

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `proxy_mysql_server_no_hostgroup` type.

* [`hostgroup_id`](#-proxy_mysql_server_no_hostgroup--hostgroup_id)
* [`load_to_runtime`](#-proxy_mysql_server_no_hostgroup--load_to_runtime)
* [`name`](#-proxy_mysql_server_no_hostgroup--name)
* [`provider`](#-proxy_mysql_server_no_hostgroup--provider)
* [`save_to_disk`](#-proxy_mysql_server_no_hostgroup--save_to_disk)

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_server_no_hostgroup--hostgroup_id"></a>`hostgroup_id`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

The hostgroup of the server.

Default value: `0`

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_server_no_hostgroup--load_to_runtime"></a>`load_to_runtime`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Load this entry to the active runtime.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_server_no_hostgroup--name"></a>`name`

namevar

name for server to manage.

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_server_no_hostgroup--provider"></a>`provider`

The specific backend to use for this `proxy_mysql_server_no_hostgroup` resource. You will seldom need to specify this
--- Puppet will usually discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_server_no_hostgroup--save_to_disk"></a>`save_to_disk`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Perist this entry to the disk.

Default value: `true`

### <a name="proxy_mysql_user"></a>`proxy_mysql_user`

Manage a ProxySQL mysql_user. This includes management of users password as well as privileges.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `proxy_mysql_user` type.

##### `active`

Valid values: `%r{[01]}`

Is the user active or not.

##### `backend`

Valid values: `%r{[01]}`

Backend or not.

Default value: `1`

##### `default_hostgroup`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

Default hostgroup for the user.

##### `default_schema`

Valid values: `%r{\w+}`

Default schema for the user.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: `present`, `absent`

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: `present`

##### `fast_forward`

Valid values: `%r{[01]}`

Use fast forwrd or not.

##### `frontend`

Valid values: `%r{[01]}`

Frontend or not.

Default value: `1`

##### `max_connections`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

Max concurrent connections for the user.

##### `password`

Valid values: `%r{\w*}`

The password of the user. You can use mysql_password() for creating a hashed password.

##### `schema_locked`

Valid values: `%r{[01]}`

Is the user locked in the default schema or not.

##### `transaction_persistent`

Valid values: `%r{[01]}`

Disable routing across hostgroups once a transaction has started for a specific user.

##### `use_ssl`

Valid values: `%r{[01]}`

Use ssl or not.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `proxy_mysql_user` type.

* [`encrypt_password`](#-proxy_mysql_user--encrypt_password)
* [`load_to_runtime`](#-proxy_mysql_user--load_to_runtime)
* [`name`](#-proxy_mysql_user--name)
* [`provider`](#-proxy_mysql_user--provider)
* [`save_to_disk`](#-proxy_mysql_user--save_to_disk)

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_user--encrypt_password"></a>`encrypt_password`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Encrypt the users password (requires ProxySQL setting `admin-hash_password` = `true`)

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_user--load_to_runtime"></a>`load_to_runtime`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Load this entry to the active runtime.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_user--name"></a>`name`

namevar

The name of the user to manage.

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_user--provider"></a>`provider`

The specific backend to use for this `proxy_mysql_user` resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will
usually discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

##### <a name="-proxy_mysql_user--save_to_disk"></a>`save_to_disk`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Perist this entry to the disk.

Default value: `true`

### <a name="proxy_scheduler"></a>`proxy_scheduler`

Manage a ProxySQL scheduler entry.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `proxy_scheduler` type.

##### `active`

Valid values: `%r{[01]}`

Is the scheduler active or not.

##### `arg1`

Valid values: `%r{[\w+]}`

optional argument to pass to the script.

##### `arg2`

Valid values: `%r{[\w+]}`

optional argument to pass to the script.

##### `arg3`

Valid values: `%r{[\w+]}`

optional argument to pass to the script.

##### `arg4`

Valid values: `%r{[\w+]}`

optional argument to pass to the script.

##### `arg5`

Valid values: `%r{[\w+]}`

optional argument to pass to the script.

##### `comment`

Valid values: `%r{[\w+]}`

optional comment.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: `present`, `absent`

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: `present`

##### `filename`

Valid values: `%r{\w+}`

Filename of the script to run. (required)

##### `interval_ms`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

How often (in millisecond) the job will be started.

##### `scheduler_id`

Valid values: `%r{\d+}`

The id of the scheduler entry.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `proxy_scheduler` type.

* [`load_to_runtime`](#-proxy_scheduler--load_to_runtime)
* [`name`](#-proxy_scheduler--name)
* [`provider`](#-proxy_scheduler--provider)
* [`save_to_disk`](#-proxy_scheduler--save_to_disk)

##### <a name="-proxy_scheduler--load_to_runtime"></a>`load_to_runtime`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Load this entry to the active runtime.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-proxy_scheduler--name"></a>`name`

namevar

scheduler name

##### <a name="-proxy_scheduler--provider"></a>`provider`

The specific backend to use for this `proxy_scheduler` resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will
usually discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

##### <a name="-proxy_scheduler--save_to_disk"></a>`save_to_disk`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Perist this entry to the disk.

Default value: `true`

## Data types

### <a name="Proxysql--GaleraHostgroup"></a>`Proxysql::GaleraHostgroup`

Represents an entry in the ProxySQL `mysql_galera_hostgroups` admin table.

Alias of

```puppet
Array[Hash[String, Struct[{ writer                     => Integer[0],
                                                             backup                     => Integer[0],
                                                             reader                     => Integer[0],
                                                             offline                    => Integer[0],
                                                             Optional[active]           => Integer[0,1],
                                                             Optional[writers]          => Integer[0],
                                                             Optional[writer_is_reader] => Integer[0,2],
                                                             Optional[max_transactions] => Integer[0], }],1,1]]
```

### <a name="Proxysql--GroupReplicationHostgroup"></a>`Proxysql::GroupReplicationHostgroup`

Represents a ProxySQL group replication hostgroup.

Alias of

```puppet
Array[Hash[String, Struct[{ writer                     => Integer,
                                                                       backup                     => Integer,
                                                                       reader                     => Integer,
                                                                       offline                    => Integer,
                                                                       Optional[active]           => Integer[0,1],
                                                                       Optional[writers]          => Integer,
                                                                       Optional[writer_is_reader] => Integer[0,1],
                                                                       Optional[max_transactions] => Integer, }],1,1]]
```

### <a name="Proxysql--Hostgroup"></a>`Proxysql::Hostgroup`

Represents a ProxySQL replication hostgroup.

Alias of

```puppet
Array[Hash[String, Struct[{ writer => Integer,
                                                       reader => Integer, }],1,1]]
```

### <a name="Proxysql--Scheduler"></a>`Proxysql::Scheduler`

Represents a ProxySQL scheduler

Alias of

```puppet
Array[Hash[String, Struct[{ scheduler_id          => Integer,
                                                       active                => Integer,
                                                       Optional[interval_ms] => Integer,
                                                       filename              => String[1],
                                                       Optional[arg1]        => String[1],
                                                       Optional[arg2]        => String[1],
                                                       Optional[arg3]        => String[1],
                                                       Optional[arg4]        => String[1],
                                                       Optional[arg5]        => String[1] }],1,1]]
```

### <a name="Proxysql--Server"></a>`Proxysql::Server`

Represents a ProxySQL server.

Alias of

```puppet
Array[Hash[String, Struct[{ Optional[port]                => Integer,
                                                    hostgroup_id                  => Integer,
                                                    Optional[status]              => String[1],
                                                    Optional[weight]              => Integer,
                                                    Optional[compression]         => Integer,
                                                    Optional[max_connections]     => Integer,
                                                    Optional[max_replication_lag] => Integer,
                                                    Optional[use_ssl]             => Integer[0,1],
                                                    Optional[max_latency_ms]      => Integer,
                                                    Optional[comment]             => String[1], }],1,1]]
```

### <a name="Proxysql--User"></a>`Proxysql::User`

Represents a ProxySQL user.

Alias of

```puppet
Array[Hash[String, Struct[{ password                         => String[1],
                                                  default_hostgroup                => Integer,
                                                  Optional[active]                 => Integer[0,1],
                                                  Optional[use_ssl]                => Integer[0,1],
                                                  Optional[default_schema]         => String[1],
                                                  Optional[schema_locked]          => Integer[0,1],
                                                  Optional[transaction_persistent] => Integer[0,1],
                                                  Optional[fast_forward]           => Integer[0,1],
                                                  Optional[backend]                => Integer[0,1],
                                                  Optional[frontend]               => Integer[0,1],
                                                  Optional[max_connections]        => Integer, }],1,1]]
```

